# Analysis of New York City Public Bike Rental Data
Data was collected about the public bike rentals all over New York City. Data was uploaded to kaggle and can be found [here](https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/daesunryu/public-dataset-from-bikesharecompany). 

The original dataset contains many features about the rides, but does not contain any information about the riders. We might be able to infer information about the riders using the original feautures such as starting and ending locations, but that is beyong the scope of this project. We were mainly interest in exploring the data, gathering key information about the rides, and creating predictive models for the distance of a ride. All the analysis was written in python using Jupyter Notebooks with the help of common data science packages. 

Notebooks 01 and 02 contain the code for preprocessing and feature engineering. In these notebooks, we explore the data and look for trends as well as get it ready for modeling. We also introduce new features in the data such as if a ride was done with a friend and the ride length. In notebooks 03,04,and 05 and implement a variety of models to try to predict the ride length. In notebook 03 we try to fit a regression model to the data, but we had trouble with meeting the assumptions of a regression model that would make it valid. Instead of trying other regression models, we thought it would be a better fit to implement more modern modeles. In the baseline regression model, we saw that we had unequal variance in the residuals where the residuals were much close to 0 for shorter ride lengths than for longer ride lengths. This was a good indicatior that model that can split these apart such as a tree based model or a neural network would perform well. We decided to implement Random Forrest, XGBoost, and a simple Neural Network using Pytorch to create a predictive model. 

The results from these models confirmed our assumptions. The Random Forrest algorithm performed the best, presumably because it could seperate the short rides from the longer rides. While the boosting algorithm had similar issues to our baseline regression model. We choose to use the random forrest model to implement in an online app which will be published to Streamlit. 
